---
layout: monster
name: "\"Black Dead\" Charger"
level: 3
role: Skirmisher
size: Medium
origin: Natural
type: Humanoid
#keywords: 
experience_points: 150
initiative: "+4"
perception: "+0"
special_senses: Darkvision
#aura:
#  name: Some Aura
#  keyword: (Nasty)
#  range: 3
#  effect: Something nasty happens.

hit_points: 46
bloodied: 23
armor_class: 17
fortitude: 15
reflex: 15
will: 13
#saving_throws: 
#immune:
#resist:
vulnerable: 4 radiant
speed: 8
#action_points: 

powers:
  - name: Claw
    type: basic-melee
    action: standard
    recharge: at-will
    description: +8 vs AC; 1d6+3 damage
  - name: Bite
    type: basic-melee
    action: standard
    recharge: at-will
    keywords: Disease
    description: +8 vs AC; 1d6+3 damage; only when has combat advantage; target contracts Black Death
  - name: Biting Charge
    type: melee
    action: standard + move
    recharge: encounter
    keywords: Disease
    description: "+9 vs AC (includes charge bonus); 2d6+4 damage; On a successful charge attack, target is knocked prone and contracts Black Death."
  - name: Combat Advantage
    action: standard
    recharge: at-will
    keywords: Disease
    description: "If the \"Black Dead\" Charger has combat advantage against a target, then a hit knocks target prone and contracts Black Death."
  - name: Rise Again
    action: when reduced to 0 hit points
    description: "\"Black Dead\" Charger rises as a Zombie (MM p274) with 12 hit points 1d4 rounds after its death."
    
alignment: Unaligned
str: 16 (+3)
dex: 14 (+2)
wis: 8 (-1)
con: 14 (+2)
int: 6 (-2)
cha: 5 (-3)
---

h2. Tactics

"Black Dead" Chargers mindlessly run towards at the nearest living creature for a _biting charge_, attempting to knock prone and bite their prey.  They relentlessly bite and bite any prone target.  If they cannot knock a target down, they rake with their claws mindlessly.  

Multiple Chargers will try to gain combat advantage against a single foe to knock them prone.  Then they will all use bite attacks.

"Black Dead" Chargers will fight until bloodied, and then they run away, leaving behind all others of their kind.

